[Music]
what is the ketogenic diet and how it
differs from all other diets there are
so many different diets out there that
it can feel like you're drowning in a
sea of endless choices but look no
further because the ketogenic diet has
pretty much everything you need
among the proven health benefits of this
diet our weight loss mental focus
increased energy controlled blood sugar
stabilized blood pressure and so many
more interested think keep on watching
before we get into all the tasty details
hit that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to hang out on the
bright side of life more often okay so
what exactly is the ketogenic diet and
how does it work
well the word keto comes from the name
of small molecules that our bodies
produce called ketones they're basically
an alternative fuel source that your
body uses when glucose aka blood sugar
is in short supply if you consume fewer
carbs the things that break up into
blood sugar quickly and moderate amounts
of protein which can be converted into
blood sugar as well your body produces
the necessary amount of ketones and
starts running almost entirely on fat
your insulin levels become really low
while fat burning increases dramatically
to put it short when you follow the
ketogenic diet it becomes easier for
your system to get access to your fat
stores and burn them off as a result you
lose weight incredibly fast but unlike a
lot of crash diets out there this one
doesn't hurt your system it'll still
work like a charm even through all these
changes and while this diet seems like a
dream come true
not everyone can follow it if you have
diabetes or high blood pressure and take
medication for your condition the
ketogenic diet isn't for you
women who are breastfeeding should also
steer clear of this one always talk to
your doctor before you start a new diet
because only a medical professional can
tell if your body can handle such
changes if they give you the green light
they can also give you a few tips on how
to make it safer and easier for your
system to cope with the new menu
the ketogenic diet is sort of an
overarching term there are actually a
few versions you can choose from
depending on your preferences there's
the standard ketogenic diet a low carb
moderate protein and high fat diet
consisting of approximately 75% got 20%
protein and 5% carbs cyclical ketogenic
diet involves periods of higher carb
refeed for example to higher carb days
after five standard low-carb ketogenic
days the targeted ketogenic diet allows
you to add carbs around your workouts
and higher protein ketogenic diet like
the standard ketogenic diet but with
more protein changing the menu to 60%
fat 35% protein and 5% carbs keep in
mind that the safest choices here are
the standard and high protein ketogenic
diets since they've been studied more
exclusively than the other two types the
cyclical and targeted diets are more
suitable for bodybuilders or athletes
but enough with the theory let's have a
look at what you can and can't eat while
on a standard ketogenic diet you should
base the majority of your meals around
these foods and ingredients meat like
red meat steak
ham sausage bacon chicken or turkey
fatty fish including salmon trout and
tuna pastured or omega-3 pool eggs
grass-fed butter and cream unprocessed
cheese such as goat cheese cream cheese
blue cheese or mozzarella nuts and seeds
like almonds walnuts pumpkin seeds or
chia seeds healthy oils especially
extra-virgin olive oil coconut oil and
avocado oil low carb vegetables tomatoes
onions peppers and most green leafy
veggies will do healthy herbs and spices
as for the food you should avoid under
any circumstances they are sugary foods
such as soda smoothies cake ice cream
candy and
anything of the like fruits that
includes whole fruit and fruit juice
grains or starches 'm including wheat
based products rice pasta or cereal
beans or legumes such as peas kidney
beans lentils or chickpeas root
vegetables and tubers
for example potatoes sweet potatoes
carrots or parsnips the products labeled
low-fat or diet unhealthy fat the kind
found in vegetable oils mayonnaise and
other products alcohol the perfect
beverage choices for the ketogenic diet
are water coffee and tea
just avoid sweetening those up with
sugar you can add a small amount of milk
or cream to your coffee though an
occasional glass of wine won't hurt your
diet either getting started with any new
diet always seems like the most daunting
task but to make it a bit less confusing
for you here's a seven-day ketogenic
meal plan that you can follow or use as
an example when kree in your own day one
breakfast a sausage and spinach frittata
and a cup of coffee with two tablespoons
of heavy cream lunch
half a cup of simple egg salad for
romaine lettuce leaves and two slices of
bacon dinner 6 ounces of rotisserie
chicken 3/4 cup of cauliflower gratin
2 cups of chopped romaine lettuce and 2
tablespoons of sugar free Caesar salad
dressing between meal snacks half an
avocado with light salt and pepper and
24 raw almonds
day two breakfast again a sausage and
spinach frittata and a cup of coffee
with heavy cream if you want to change
things up you can make an egg tomato
basil and goat cheese omelet instead
lunch two cups of chopped romaine
lettuce two tablespoons of sugar free
Caesar salad dressing and one cup of
chopped leftover chicken from
yesterday's dinner dinner one Italian
sausage link one cup of cooked broccoli
one tablespoon of butter and two
tablespoons of grated Parmesan cheese
between meal snacks have another half an
avocado with light salt and pepper and
add five sticks of celery with two
tablespoons of almond butter day three
breakfast - cream cheese cupcakes two
slices of bacon and a cup of coffee with
two tablespoons of heavy cream lunch one
Italian sausage length was 3/4 cup of
cauliflower gratin or you can have a
shrimp salad with olive oil and avocado
for a change
dinner 1 and 1/2 cup of chili spaghetti
squash casserole 2 cups of raw baby
spinach and 1 tablespoon of sugar free
ranch dressing between meal snacks two
sticks of strength cheese and one cup of
bone broth day for breakfast we're back
to a sausage and spinach frittata and a
cup of coffee with heavy cream to drink
sugar free yogurt with peanut butter
cocoa powder and stevia is an
alternative option as well lunch one and
a half cups of Chile spaghetti squash
casserole or stir-fried beef with
vegetables cooked in coconut oil dinner
1/2 a cup of antipasto salad for
sun-dried tomatoes and feta meatballs 2
cups of raw baby spinach 1 tablespoon of
sugar free Italian dressing between meal
snacks half an avocado with light salt
and pepper and 1 cup of bone broth
day five breakfast - cream cheese
pancakes two slices of bacon and a cup
of coffee with heavy cream or a ham and
cheese omelet with vegetables lunch
half a cup of antipasto salad and four
sun-dried tomatoes and feta meatballs or
chicken salad with olive oil and feta
cheese dinner and one cup of Cuban pot
roast two cups of chopped romaine
lettuce two tablespoons of sour cream 1
tablespoon of chopped cilantro and a
quarter cup of shredded cheddar cheese
between meal snacks five sticks of
celery with two tablespoons of almond
butter and 1 cup of bone broth day six
breakfast three scrambled or fried eggs
1 teaspoon of butter 2 slices of bacon
and a cup of coffee with heavy cream
lunch one cup of Cuban pot roast two
cups of chopped romaine salad 2
tablespoons of sour cream 1 tablespoon
of chopped cilantro and a quarter cup of
shredded cheddar cheese to change things
up you can have a burger with salsa
cheese and guacamole instead dinner one
and a half cups of chili spaghetti
squash casserole two cups of raw baby
spinach and one tablespoon of sugar free
ranch dressing or steak and eggs with a
side salad between meal snacks 24 raw
almonds or one cup of bone broth
day seven breakfast - cream cheese
pancakes two slices of bacon and a cup
of coffee with heavy cream or fried eggs
with bacon and mushrooms lunch
half a cup of antipasto salad with four
sun-dried tomatoes and feta meatballs or
a handful of nuts and celery sticks with
guacamole and salsa dinner one cup of
Cuban pot roast two cups of chopped
romaine lettuce two tablespoons of sour
cream 1 tablespoon of chopped cilantro
and 1/4 cup of shredded cheddar cheese
if you want to go with something else
you can have pork chops with Parmesan
cheese broccoli and salad between meal
snacks one cup of bone broth and two
sticks of string cheese and that's
pretty much it
yes there are a lot of repeating dishes
throughout this seven-day plan but don't
worry you can still incorporate your
favorite meals just make sure that they
abide by the basic guidelines of the
keto diet plus the internet is full of
awesome keto recipes so have a look at
what's out there now you might
experience some unpleasant side effects
as you begin the ketogenic diet the
biggest one is keto flu the symptoms of
which include poor energy and mental
function increased hunger sleep issues
nausea and digestive discomfort in order
to minimize your risk of having these
problems try a regular low carb diet for
the first few weeks before going full-on
keto it'll give your body a chance to
burn more fat while gradually preparing
it for the ketogenic diet following a
ketogenic diet that can also change your
body's water and mineral balance just
try to add extra salt or take mineral
supplements if you notice these changes
and be sure to check in a few doctor
from time to time despite these
unpleasant but still possible
side-effects the ketogenic diet has been
proven to have the times of amazing
health benefits scientists from the
Center for obesity research and
epidemiology at Robert Gordon University
in the U
confirmed that this diet can decrease
the risk of developing heart disease by
stabilizing blood sugar and blood
pressure levels as well as increasing
the good cholesterol in your blood
researchers from the department of
biomedical sciences at italy's
university of padova also found that
lower insulin levels and eating less
sugar and processed foods is really
helpful for getting rid of acne if
you're still not convinced to give it a
shot then check this out several studies
including one conducted by the
Department of Biology at Boston College
have shown that a ketogenic diet can be
used to treat certain types of cancer
and even slow tumor growth now that's
impressive
right and that's still not the complete
list of all the health benefits that
this diet can give you so what are you
waiting for the ketogenic diet is
everything you need to stay fit and
healthy and what do you think do diets
really work or are they just a waste of
time sound off in the comments section
below don't forget to give us a like and
click that subscribe button to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]